# Lesson 13 - Visual design and accessibility
## Visual design
Design guides, determine which rules are decided for the site, and allows for easier development. Websites nowadays are very similar, so one should try to keep within the usual conventions, as those are what users are familiar with.

### Typography
Fonts.

- Keep it simple, max 2 fonts if even that for a site
- Combine Serif (Has feet), Sans Serif (Lacks feet) for better dynamics (I hate Serif on the web, it's so unclean and cluttered, though it is easier to read, so what the fuck do i know)
- If possible only use one font with different variations in weight and size.
- Don't use meme fonts (Papyrus, Comic Sans etc...), you won't be taken seriously if you do

### Colors
Colors, while simple in nature can be used for many purposes, such as
- Creating contrast
- Seperating content
- Indicating similar content
- Guiding the path of the user
- Gestalt principles would like a word here.
- Warm colors make us happy
- Cold colors makes us passive and calm

Some rules for choosing colors:
- Use the 60-30-10 rule
	-	60% should be the main color
	- 30% should be the secondary color
	- 10% should be the accent color
- Use a simple palette
- Make sure the color represents your product
	- Example: Selling pink bikes? Make the website pink in some capacity, prob as the secondary or accent color.

### Pictures
- Choose a single art style and stick with it, to create a sort of brand recognition
- Pictures are illustrations and should follow the colors and shapes of the rest of the site.
- Background pictures are ballsy, but can work in some cases, probably not on the whole site, but landing pages are a great place for them to make an impression

### Trends
- 2012, skeumorphism
	- As close to reality as possible
- 2014, flat design
	- Everything should be flat, without shadows
- 2018, brutalism
	- Big and brutish, very monolithic.
- 2021, neumorphism
	- Mix of skeumorphism and minimalism, very flat with shadows and stuff.
- Future, glassism?
	- Everything should be like slighly opaque glass

Rules:
- Simple is better than trendy
- Look at similar products and their design style, for inspiration
- Make a style guide, so the design is consistent through the entire product

## Accessibility
Everything should be accessible to everyone.

### WCAG
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. Ones page should be, percievable, operable, understandable, and robust. Rules:

- High contrast text, in comparison the background. Black on white = good.
- Lines shouldn't be too long. With a relatively large line spacing, for easier reading
- Recognisable UI elements, and consitent navigation, don't move shit around fucko
- In purely visual elements such as pictures, use the alt="" tag, which allows you to explain the contents of the picture, this helps all kinds of screen readers.
