# Lesson 2 - Design metoder og informationsarkitektur
## What is user experience development
- Making sure that nothing happens without your intent
- Every action possibility taken into account
- Understanding user expectations during those actions

## Elements
### Plane
Planes are layers of the user experience, there are five distinct layers of user experience
- Surface
	- The surface is what is see, image, text, things to click on and so on.
- Skeleton
	- The placement of elements, or structure, of the user experience. Elements are placed for maximum effect, such as placing the elements in familiar places, or to draw the users eyes to certain spots
- Structure
	- The structure of the page, how the user got there, and where they should go. 
	- The skeleton is the netflix browsing of categories. The structure is what those categories are
- Scope
	- The scope of the site. A book shop is not going to sell you a drill. Size and features also fall under here, such as the ability to save the cart, favorite elements etc. whether those elements are included is a matter of the site's scope.
- Strategy
	- What the designers and users want out of the site. Directly determines scope.
	- Ex. We want to rent you a bike, you want to rent a bike.

These elements are put together in the following order: Strategy, Scope, Structure, Skeleton, Surface. Coincidentally that is also the order of abstraction, from least to most.

While each layer is dependent on each other, completing them in a linear fashion, is literally the concept of the waterfall model, which is a nogo. So instead one should aim to COMPLETE the face, before COMPLETING the next phase. Notice the difference, in completing before completing, not completing before starting. This allows for backpeddaling or reavulating certain decisions, which will impact the next phase.

#### Plane terms
In the scope of a software project, imagine a slice down the middle of the previously discussed stack. The software side of that stack has a few specific elements, listed here:
- Strategy
	- User needs: The goals of the site, from outside the developers, aka the users
	- Site objective: Business goals or reach of the site
- Scope
	- Functional specifications: Detailed description of the sites features, adapted from the strategy
	- Content requirements:  Description of the content of the site, such as books of varying categories
- Structure
	- Interaction design: How the system reacts to user inputs
	- Information architecture: Placement of content on the site
- Skeleton
	- Information design: How information is presented
	- Interface design: How the user interacts with the system
	- Navigation design: The elements that allow the user to navigate the architecture. Such as searching for categories, and clicking one on an already existing product
- Surface
	- Visual design: The look of the product, read: css

## Lean UX
A method for constructing and doing projects.

Useful when using agile

Main objective is to gather feedback as soon as possible, to make better and quicker decisions, as well as emphasize teamwork. 

Instead of using a detailed requirements, Lean UX uses a problem statement with assumptions that then create a hypotheses.
- Assumption
	- An assumption could be: Our users are middle aged women.
	- If you have too many assumptions, then you should prioritize them by their risk of being wrong, less is better.
- Hypotheses
	- Used to test if our assumption is true, by stating something and then gathering evidence for or against that statement.
	- We believe that by saving watched time, will result in less frustration from the users when returning to watch something.

### MVP
Lean UX uses the Minimum Viable Product method, which is based on building the most basic version of the product, test and gather data, if the tests are negative, abandon and try again.

## Design thinking
### Empathize
Understand people, and why and how they interact with the world, as well as how they feel and think and need.
- Observe
	- Observe the user and their behavior in real life
- Engage
	- Talk with your users, prepare some questions but let the conversation go arry.
- Watch and listen
	- Have the user show you how they do a task, and talk you through it.

### Define
Create clarity and focus. This is where you create a problem statement, usually based on the results of the Empathize fase. Materialize the problem statement, by creating a connection between the empathize fase and the context of the issue.

Questions to ask yourself:
- What patters emerged while talking to people?
- What was something interesting you noticed, and why?
- Who am i designing for?
- What needs are there?
- What insights have i gathered in my research?

Create a Point-Of-View statement from the users perspective.

### Ideate
Idea generation. Generate as many ideas as possible, and then distill later.

### Prototype
Iterative process of creating higher and higher resolution versions of the product. If the product fails to engage users, try again with a different idea from the ideate process. Fail quickly and cheaply.

### Test
Test the product in the hands of the users, to solicit feedback.

- Show don't tell
	- Put the product in the users hands, and don't explain it. Let them figure it out. Listen to what they say and how the use it. This gathers feedback, and test how intuitive the product is.
- Create Experiences
	- Let the user experience the product. Not evaluate.
- Ask users to compare
	- Give the user multiple prototypes and let them compare, both the good and bad between the prototypes.

### Iterate
Iterate the last three until you land on the final product.

