# Lesson 3 - UI-elementer, skethind and wireframing
## Wireframes
Wireframes are colorless, not functional prototypes of the product, without content. Which allows quick and cheap retesting.

Wireframes are used to quickly sketch layout, and get a base on which to build the rest of the design. Wireframes can be hard to use as they lack any visual cues, so they can be confusing to test to users. 

Wireframes are build in layers:
- 1
	- Rectangles, dedicated to certain elements such as:
		- Header
		- Navigation
		- Footer
		- Main content
			- Related articles
			- The current article
			- etc
- 2
	- Add more detail, seperate the header into multiple buttons
	- Add detail to the footer, etc.
	- This comes with the risk of moving out of wireframe teretory.
- 3
	- Start adding colors, specific elements and so on. Moving into high fidelity teretory here.

## Sketching
A sketch is made to indicate an idea or way of thinking about a product. By drawing what you visualize in your head. The way the sketch is made indicates how it is intended to use. If it's very low fidelity one can assume it is intended to be critigued, and or changed. If the sketch is very high fidelity and clearly long into the design phase it is more intended to show the application, borders on wireframes.

A sketch is:
- Quick
- Inexpensive
- Disposable, should be cheap enough that a new can take it's place. Do not get attached
- Plentiful, should not give the entire context, but should be able to provide plenty on it's own.
- Clear vocabulary, follows conventions that distinguish it from other drawings, in it's style, form and so on.
- Distinct gesture, should be fluid, and keep expanding, by being open and allowing freedom of expression.
- Minimal detail, include what is required to get the point across.
- Appropriate degree of refinement, should not suggest a level of refinement beyond the projects progress.
- Suggest and explore rather than confirm, suggest a concept, don't tell it.
- Ambiguity, on should be able to see more than one purpose in the sketch, thereby not making the sketch able to be viewed in different by different people.

### Other types
- Memory drawing
	- Made to record or capture ideas. Have more detail than sketches. 
	- Hand rendered photograph
- Presentation drawing
	- Renderings for the customer or client.
	- Has the ability to communicate the product before making it.
- Technical drawing
	- Intended for the builders of the product.
	- Alot of detail, down to the measurements.
	- Blueprint
- Description drawing 
	- Intended to explain something.
	- Could be in a manual.
	- Could be broken into frames.

## Atomic design
Seperates an application into different elements of larger and larger size.
- Atoms
	- Very small elements, the most basic building blocks. Fx a text field or button
- Molecules
	-	 Groups of two or more atoms. Creating small groups of elements, functioning as a unit, fx a search text field with a button
- Organisms
	- Relatively complex collections of atoms and molecules, such as headers with button atoms and a search molecule.
- Templates
	- A collection of molecules, atoms and organisms without content. Basically a page without any content but more the layout of the page
- Pages
	- Instances of templates with content, thereby creating an actual page.

## UI elements
Categories of elements in a UI
- Input controls
	- Way to input information such as, checkboxes, text fields, dropdowns etc.
- Navigation components
	- Way to navigate the page such as, search fields, tags, breadcrumbs, icons, etc..
- Information components
	- Ways to provide information to the user such as, notifications, tool tips, progress bars, message boxes, text elements.
- Containers
	- Ways to group content, such as accordions.


