# Lesson 4 - Gestalt, cognition and dark patterns
## Gestalt
The principles of human psychology, in how we percieve groups of elements. The laws are as follows:
- Closure, in figures with holes we fill out the holes. Such as lines on the road
- Common region, elements grouped in a box are percieved as being together
	- Fx if we have a bunch of buttons, and a subset has a different background we automatically percieve them as being in a group.
- Figure/ground, we look for stable items, such as seeing the foreground first
- Proximity, elements close to each other are grouped together
- Similarity, elements of the same form or color are grouped together
- Continuation, the eye tries to percieve shapes, even when the shape is broken.

## Dark patterns
- Bait and switch, false sense of security, and then switch.
- Disguised ad, ads disguised as other kinds of content
	- Download buttons fx.
- Forced cuntinuity, when your free trial ends and it keeps charging you
- Friend spam, asks for social media, and then spams all your friends
- Hidden costs, when the price has hidden fees
- Misdirection, focuses attention on one thing to distract from another.
- Price comparison prevention, makes it difficult to compare price with another product, by hiding the real name etc.
- Privacy Zuckering, tricking you into sharing private information
- Roach motel, makes it easy to get into situations but not leave again
	- Such as easy signup and the really difficult to delete account, easily combined with forced continuity
- Sneak into basket, add items to the basket by tricking you, usually by a checkbox you have to uncheck
- Trick questions, questions that ask one thing, but mean another

Can be grouped into:
- Nagging, persisting interaction, such as having to unsubscribe from newsletter on each page
- Obstruction
	- Roach motel
	- Price comparison prevention
	- Intermediate currency
- Sneaking
	- Forced continuity
	- Hidden costs
	- Sneak into basket
	- Bait and switch
- Interface Interference
	- Hidden information
	- Preselection
	- Aesthetic manipulation
	- Toying with emotions
	- False hierachy
	- Disguised ad
	- Trick question
- Forced action
	- Social pyramid
	- Privacy zuckering
	- Gamification

## Asshole design
Purposefully using gestalt and dark patterns to gain something.
